---
layout: post
title:  "From Outreachy 2020 to GSoC 2023: My Journey to Open-Source Success"
author: "Richa"
---

As a software developer, I've always been passionate about using my skills to make a positive impact on the world. That's why I was thrilled to be accepted into the Outreachy program in 2020, which provides internships for people from underrepresented backgrounds to work on open-source projects. During my time with Outreachy, I worked with a fantastic team at Mozilla on a project that helped me develop my skills and make valuable contributions to the open-source community.

However, I didn't stop there. I knew that I wanted to continue my open-source journey and take on even bigger challenges. That's why I set my sights on the Google Summer of Code (GSoC) program, which provides even more opportunities for developers to work on open-source projects with mentorship and support from top organizations.

After months of hard work and preparation, I was thrilled to receive the news that I had been accepted into the GSoC 2023 program with Postman and AsyncAPI. This was a dream come true for me, and a testament to the effort and dedication that I had put into my open-source contributions.

In my GSoC role, I will be working on developing GitHub actions and workflows as part of AsyncAPI's open-source initiative, which focuses on event-driven APIs. This project will involve contributing to the development of AsyncAPI's open-source specification and improving the overall functionality of the platform. I'm excited to be a part of this initiative and look forward to learning and growing as a developer.

Looking back on my journey from Outreachy with Mozilla to GSoC, I'm proud of the hard work and dedication that I've put into my open-source work. These programs have not only helped me develop my technical skills but also connect with a community of like-minded individuals who share my passion for using technology to make the world a better place. I'm grateful to both Outreachy and GSoC for providing me with the opportunity to develop my skills and make valuable contributions to the community.

I am thrilled to embark on this new chapter of my journey in open-source development, and I am eager to contribute to the growth of the community. If you're a developer, I strongly encourage you to explore the world of open-source projects and find one that aligns with your interests and goals. It's a great way to learn new skills, collaborate with other developers, and make a meaningful impact in the tech industry. Let's continue to grow and innovate together!